lightning: update docs for duplicate detection (#14343)
pingcap/docs: tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md

# The local data source directory or the URI of the external storage. For more information about the URI of the external storage, see https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.6/backup-and-restore-storages#uri-format.
data-source-dir = "/data/my_database"

[conflict]

> # The strategy to handle conflicting data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The strategy to handle conflicting data. The default value is "".
```

> # The strategy to handle conflicting data. The default value is "".
> # - "": no actions. TiDB Lightning might exit due to an error.
> # - "error": the import task fails if there is conflicting data.
> # - "replace": keep the new data when detecting conflicting data.
> # - "ignore": keep the old data when detecting conflicting data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The new version strategy to handle conflicting data. The default value is "".
# - "": TiDB Lightning does not detect and process conflicting dat. But if there are conflicting primary or unique key records in the source file, an error is reported in the subsequent step (Checksum).
# - "error": terminate the import and report an error if a primary or unique key conflict is detected in the imported data.
# - "replace": when encountering data with conflicting primary or unique keys, the new data is retained and the old data is overwritten.
# - "ignore": when encountering data with conflicting primary or unique keys, the old data is retained and the new data is ignored.
# It cannot be used together with `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` (the old version of conflict detection processing).
```

strategy = ""
# When `strategy` is "replace" or "ignore", controls the maximum tolerable conflict count. Only can be set when `strategy` is "replace" or "ignore". The default value is 9223372036854775807
# threshold = 9223372036854775807

> # Controls the maximum record count in conflict_record table. The default value is 100

Author: 应该是 conflict_record，帮忙改一下

> # Controls the maximum record count in conflict_record table. The default value is 100

Author: > 应该是 conflict_records，帮忙改一下

> # Controls the maximum record count in conflict_record table. The default value is 100

Reviewer: Done

# The local data source directory or the URI of the external storage. For more information about the URI of the external storage, see https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.6/backup-and-restore-storages#uri-format.
data-source-dir = "/data/my_database"

[conflict]
# The new version of strategy to handle conflicting data. The default value is "".

> # - "": TiDB Lightning does not detect and process conflicting dat. But if there are conflicting primary or unique key records in the source file, an error is reported in the subsequent step (Checksum).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# - "": TiDB Lightning does not detect and process conflicting data. But if there are conflicting primary or unique key records in the source file, an error is reported in the subsequent step (Checksum).
```

> # - "": TiDB Lightning does not detect and process conflicting data. But if there are conflicting primary or unique key records in the source file, an error is reported in the subsequent step (Checksum).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# - "": TiDB Lightning does not detect and process conflicting data. But if there are conflicting primary or unique key records in the source file, an error is reported in the subsequent step.
```

There are two versions for conflict detection:

- The new version of conflict detection, controlled by the `conflict` configuration item.
- The old version of conflict detection, controlled by the `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` configuration item.

### The new version of conflict detection

The meaning of configuration values are as follows:

| Strategy | Default behavior of conflicting data | The corresponding SQL statement |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `"replace"` | Replacing existing data with new data. | `REPLACE INTO ...` |
| `"ignore"` | Keeping existing data and ignoring new data. | `INSERT IGNORE INTO ...` |
| `"error"` | Pausing the import and reporting an error. | `INSERT INTO ...` |
| `""` | no actions. TiDB Lightning might exit due to an error. |  None   |

> **Note:**
>
> The conflict detection result in the physical import mode might differ from SQL-based import due to internal implementation and limitation of TiDB Lightning.

> When the strategy is `"replace"` or `"ignore"`, conflicting data is treated as [conflict errors](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#conflict-errors). If the [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) value is greater than `0`, TiDB Lightning tolerates the specified number of conflict errors. The default value is `9223372036854775807`, which means that almost all errors are tolerated. For more information, see [error resolution](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the strategy is `"replace"` or `"ignore"`, conflicting data is treated as [conflict errors](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#conflict-errors). If the [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) value is greater than `0`, TiDB Lightning tolerates the specified number of conflict errors. The default value is `9223372036854775807`, which means that almost all errors are tolerable. For more information, see [error resolution](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md).
```

The new version of conflict detection has the following limitations:

- Before importing, TiDB Lightning prechecks potential conflicting data by reading all data and encoding it. During the detection process, TiDB Lightning uses `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` to store temporary files. After the detection is complete, TiDB Lightning retains the results for import phase. This introduces additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
- The new version of conflict detection only works in a single node, and does not apply to parallel imports and scenarios where the `disk-quota` parameter is enabled.

> - The new version (`conflict`) and old version (`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`) conflict detection cannot be used at the same time.The new version of conflict detection is enabled when the configuration [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is set. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The new version (`conflict`) and old version (`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`) conflict detection cannot be used at the same time. The new version of conflict detection is enabled when the configuration [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is set. 
```

When the strategy is `"replace"` or `"ignore"`, conflicting data is treated as [conflict errors](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#conflict-errors). If the [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) value is greater than `0`, TiDB Lightning tolerates the specified number of conflict errors. The default value is `9223372036854775807`, which means that almost all errors are tolerated. For more information, see [error resolution](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md).

The new version of conflict detection has the following limitations:

- Before importing, TiDB Lightning prechecks potential conflicting data by reading all data and encoding it. During the detection process, TiDB Lightning uses `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` to store temporary files. After the detection is complete, TiDB Lightning retains the results for import phase. This introduces additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
- The new version of conflict detection only works in a single node, and does not apply to parallel imports and scenarios where the `disk-quota` parameter is enabled.

> - The new version of conflict detection is enabled when the configuration [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is set. 
> - The new version (`conflict`) and old version (`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`) conflict detection cannot be used at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new version (`conflict`) and old version (`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`) conflict detection cannot be used at the same time.The new version of conflict detection is enabled when the configuration [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is set. 
```

## Conflict detection

Conflicting data refers to two or more records with the same PK/UK column data. When the data source contains conflicting data and conflict detection feature is not turned on, the actual number of rows in the table is different from the total number of rows returned by the query using unique index.

> Conflict detection has two modes, detection before importing (controlled by `conflict` configuration) and detection after importing (the old behaviour, controlled by `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` configuration). Currently the two modes cannot be used at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two methods for conflict detection:

- Detection before importing, controlled by `conflict` configuration
- Detection after importing, the old behaviour, controlled by `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` configuration

 Currently the two modes cannot be used at the same time.
```

### Detection before importing

Detection before importing will be enabled when configuration `conflict.strategy` is set. The meaning of configuration values are:

| Strategy | Default behavior of conflicting data | The corresponding SQL statement |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `replace` | Replacing existing data with new data. | `REPLACE INTO ...` |
| `ignore` | Keeping existing data and ignoring new data. | `INSERT IGNORE INTO ...` |
| `error` | Pausing the import and reporting an error. | `INSERT INTO ...` |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| "" | no actions. TiDB Lightning might exit due to an error. |  None   |
```

> Please note that due to the internal implementation and limitation of TiDB Lightning the result of conflict detection may be different with the result of SQL-based import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that due to the internal implementation and limitation of TiDB Lightning, the result of conflict detection might be different from the result of SQL-based import.
```

> When the strategy is `error`, conflicting data will fail the import task. When the strategy is `replace` or `ignore`, conflicting data will be treated as [conflict error](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#conflict-error), with `conflict.threshold` configurated the import task can tolerate the specified number of conflict error. The default value is 9223372036854775807. For futher details please see [error resolution](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the strategy is `error`, the import task fails due to conflicting data. When the strategy is `replace` or `ignore`, conflicting data will be treated as [conflict error](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#conflict-error), with `conflict.threshold` configurated, the import task can tolerate the specified number of conflict errors. The default value is `9223372036854775807`, which means that almost all errors are tolerated. For more information, see [error resolution](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md).
```

Detection before importing has the following limitations:

> - Before importing, it reads all data and encodes it to detect potentially conflicting data. Temporary files are stored using `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` during the detection process. The results are retained for import phase after the detection is complete. Therefore, there is additional overhead in terms of time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
> - It can only be done on a single node and cannot be applied to parallel import scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Before importing, it reads all data and encodes it to detect potentially conflicting data. Temporary files are stored using `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` during the detection process. The results are retained for import phase after the detection is complete. Therefore, there is additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
- It only applies to a single node and cannot be applied to parallel import scenarios.
```

> Compared with detection after importing, it has the following advantages:
> 
> - If the original data has a large amount of conflicting data, the total import time is less when use detection before importing.
> 
> We recommend using detection before importing in non-parallel import tasks when the data is known to contain conflicting data and the local disk space is sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared with detection after importing, if the original data has a large amount of conflicting data, using detection before importing can take less import time. It is recommended that you use detection before importing in non-parallel import tasks when the data contains conflicting data and the local disk space is sufficient.
```

### Detection after importing (the old behaviour)

> Detection after importing will be enabled when configuration `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` is set. This is the only method of conflict detection in the version prior to v7.2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detection after importing will be enabled when you set `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`. This is the only method of conflict detection in the version prior to v7.2.0.
```

TiDB Lightning offers two strategies for detecting conflicting data:

- `remove` (recommended): records all conflicting records, like the `record` strategy. But it removes all conflicting records from the target table to ensure a consistent state in the target TiDB.

> - `none`: does not detect duplicate records. `none` has the best performance in the three strategies, but might lead to inconsistent data in the target TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `none`: does not detect duplicate records. `none` has the best performance in the two strategies, but might lead to inconsistent data in the target TiDB.
```

> 

Reviewer: 下一行里还有 record，也需要改掉

- It only applies to a single node and cannot be applied to parallel import scenarios.

Compared with detection after importing, if the original data has a large amount of conflicting data, using detection before importing can take less import time. It is recommended that you use detection before importing in non-parallel import tasks when the data contains conflicting data and there is sufficient local disk space.

### Detection after importing (the old behaviour)

Detection after importing will be enabled when configuration `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` is set. This is the only method of conflict detection in the version prior to v7.2.0.

TiDB Lightning offers two strategies for detecting conflicting data:

- `remove` (recommended): records all conflicting records, like the `record` strategy. But it removes all conflicting records from the target table to ensure a consistent state in the target TiDB.
- `none`: does not detect duplicate records. `none` has the best performance in the two strategies, but might lead to inconsistent data in the target TiDB.

> Before v5.3, Lightning does not support conflict detection. If there is conflicting data, the import process fails at the checksum step. When conflict detection is enabled, if there is conflicting data, Lightning skips the checksum step (because it always fails).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before v5.3, TiDB Lightning does not support conflict detection. If there is conflicting data, the import process fails at the checksum step. When conflict detection is enabled, if there is conflicting data, TiDB Lightning skips the checksum step (because it always fails).
```

## Conflict detection

Conflicting data refers to two or more records with the same PK/UK column data. When the data source contains conflicting data and conflict detection feature is not turned on, the actual number of rows in the table is different from the total number of rows returned by the query using unique index.

There are two methods for conflict detection:

> - Detection before importing, controlled by `conflict` configuration
> - Detection after importing, the old behaviour, controlled by `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new version detection, controlled by `conflict` configuration
- The old version detection, controlled by `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` configuration
```

 Currently the two modes cannot be used at the same time.

> ### Detection before importing
> 
> Detection before importing will be enabled when configuration `conflict.strategy` is set. The meaning of configuration values are:
> 
> | Strategy | Default behavior of conflicting data | The corresponding SQL statement |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The new version of conflict detection

The new version of conflict detection is enabled when the configuration `conflict.strategy` is set. The meaning of configuration values are as follows:

| Strategy | Default behavior of conflicting data | The corresponding SQL statement |
```

| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `replace` | Replacing existing data with new data. | `REPLACE INTO ...` |
| `ignore` | Keeping existing data and ignoring new data. | `INSERT IGNORE INTO ...` |
| `error` | Pausing the import and reporting an error. | `INSERT INTO ...` |
| "" | no actions. TiDB Lightning might exit due to an error. |  None   |

Note that due to the internal implementation and limitation of TiDB Lightning, the result of conflict detection might be different from the result of SQL-based import.

When the strategy is `error`, the import task fails due to conflicting data. When the strategy is `replace` or `ignore`, conflicting data will be treated as [conflict error](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#conflict-error), with `conflict.threshold` configurated, the import task can tolerate the specified number of conflict errors. The default value is `9223372036854775807`, which means that almost all errors are tolerated. For more information, see [error resolution](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md).

> Detection before importing has the following limitations:
> 
> - Before importing, it reads all data and encodes it to detect potentially conflicting data. Temporary files are stored using `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` during the detection process. The results are retained for import phase after the detection is complete. Therefore, there is additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
> - It only applies to a single node and cannot be applied to parallel import scenarios.
> 
> Compared with detection after importing, if the original data has a large amount of conflicting data, using detection before importing can take less import time. It is recommended that you use detection before importing in non-parallel import tasks when the data contains conflicting data and there is sufficient local disk space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new version of conflict detection has the following limitations:

- Before importing, it reads all data and encodes it to detect potentially conflicting data. Temporary files are stored using `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` during the detection process. The results are retained for import phase after the detection is complete. Therefore, there is additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
- The new version of conflict detection can only be done on a single node, and does not apply to parallel imports and scenarios where the "disk-quota" parameter is enabled.

Compared with the old version of conflict detection, if the original data has a large amount of conflicting data, using the new version of conflict detection can take less import time. It is recommended that you use the new version of conflict detection in non-parallel import tasks when the data contains conflicting data and there is sufficient local disk space.
```

> ### Detection after importing (the old behaviour)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The old version of conflict detection
```

> Detection after importing will be enabled when you set `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`. This is the only method of conflict detection in v7.2.0 and earlier versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The old version of conflict detection is enabled when you set `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`. This is the only method of conflict detection in v7.2.0 and earlier versions.
```

The new version of conflict detection has the following limitations:

- Before importing, it reads all data and encodes it to detect potentially conflicting data. Temporary files are stored using `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` during the detection process. The results are retained for import phase after the detection is complete. Therefore, there is additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
- The new version of conflict detection can only be done on a single node, and does not apply to parallel imports and scenarios where the "disk-quota" parameter is enabled.
- The new version of conflict detection is enabled when the configuration [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is set. 
- Currently the two modes cannot be used at the same time.

> Compared with the old version of conflict detection, if the original data has a large amount of conflicting data, using the new version of conflict detection can take less import time. It is recommended that you use the new version of conflict detection in non-parallel import tasks when the data contains conflicting data and there is sufficient local disk space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Compared with the old version of conflict detection, if the original data has a large amount of conflicting data, using the new version of conflict detection can take less import time. It is recommended that you use the new version of conflict detection in non-parallel import tasks when the data contains conflicting data and there is sufficient local disk space.
```

## Conflict detection

> Conflicting data refers to two or more records with the same PK/UK column data. When the data source contains conflicting data and conflict detection feature is not turned on, the actual number of rows in the table is different from the total number of rows returned by the query using unique index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conflicting data refers to two or more records with the same primary key or unique key column data. When the data source contains conflicting data and conflict detection feature is not turned on, the actual number of rows in the table is different from the total number of rows returned by the query using unique index.
```

> There are two methods for conflict detection:
> 
> - The new version of conflict detection, controlled by `conflict` configuration
> - The old version of conflict detection, controlled by `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` configuration
> 
>  Currently the two modes cannot be used at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: 这段保留吧，中文也是有的

### The new version of conflict detection

> The new version of conflict detection is enabled when the configuration [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is set. The meaning of configuration values are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The meaning of configuration values are as follows:
```

| :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `replace` | Replacing existing data with new data. | `REPLACE INTO ...` |
> | `ignore` | Keeping existing data and ignoring new data. | `INSERT IGNORE INTO ...` |
> | `error` | Pausing the import and reporting an error. | `INSERT INTO ...` |
> | "" | no actions. TiDB Lightning might exit due to an error. |  None   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `"replace"` | Replacing existing data with new data. | `REPLACE INTO ...` |
| `"ignore"` | Keeping existing data and ignoring new data. | `INSERT IGNORE INTO ...` |
| `"error"` | Pausing the import and reporting an error. | `INSERT INTO ...` |
| `""` | no actions. TiDB Lightning might exit due to an error. |  None   |
```

Note that due to the internal implementation and limitation of TiDB Lightning, the result of conflict detection might be different from the result of SQL-based import.

> When the strategy is `error`, the import task fails due to conflicting data. When the strategy is `replace` or `ignore`, conflicting data will be treated as [conflict error](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#conflict-error), with `conflict.threshold` configurated, the import task can tolerate the specified number of conflict errors. The default value is `9223372036854775807`, which means that almost all errors are tolerated. For more information, see [error resolution](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the strategy is `error`, the import task fails due to conflicting data. When the strategy is `replace` or `ignore`, conflicting data will be treated as [conflict error](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#conflict-errors), with `conflict.threshold` configurated, the import task can tolerate the specified number of conflict errors. The default value is `9223372036854775807`, which means that almost all errors are tolerated. For more information, see [error resolution](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md).
```

The new version of conflict detection has the following limitations:

> - Before importing, it reads all data and encodes it to detect potentially conflicting data. Temporary files are stored using `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` during the detection process. The results are retained for import phase after the detection is complete. Therefore, there is additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
> - The new version of conflict detection can only be done on a single node, and does not apply to parallel imports and scenarios where the "disk-quota" parameter is enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Before importing, TiDB Lightning prechecks potential conflicting data by reading all data and encoding it. During the detection process, TiDB Lightning uses `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` to store temporary files. After the detection is complete, TiDB Lightning retains the results for import phase. This introduces additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
- The new version of conflict detection only works in a single node, and does not apply to parallel imports and scenarios where the `disk-quota` parameter is enabled.
```

- Before importing, it reads all data and encodes it to detect potentially conflicting data. Temporary files are stored using `tikv-importer.sorted-kv-dir` during the detection process. The results are retained for import phase after the detection is complete. Therefore, there is additional overhead for time consumption, disk space usage, and API requests to read the data.
- The new version of conflict detection can only be done on a single node, and does not apply to parallel imports and scenarios where the "disk-quota" parameter is enabled.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two methods for conflict detection:

- The new version of conflict detection, controlled by `conflict` configuration
- The old version of conflict detection, controlled by `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` configuration

 Currently the two modes cannot be used at the same time.
 When the disk-quota parameter is enabled, the old version of conflict detection strategy will be used by default.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new version of conflict detection is enabled when the configuration [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is set. 
```

> - Currently the two modes cannot be used at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Currently the new version and old version cannot be used at the same time.
```

> - Currently the new version and old version cannot be used at the same time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The new version (`conflict`) and old version (`tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`) conflict detection cannot be used at the same time.
```

> Compared with the old version of conflict detection, if the original data has a large amount of conflicting data, using the new version of conflict detection can take less import time. It is recommended that you use the new version of conflict detection in non-parallel import tasks when the data contains conflicting data and there is sufficient local disk space.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Compared with the old version of conflict detection, the new version takes less time when the imported data contains a large amount of conflicting data. It is recommended that you use the new version of conflict detection in non-parallel import tasks when the data contains conflicting data and there is sufficient local disk space.
```

### The old version of conflict detection

> The old version of conflict detection is enabled when you set `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution`. This is the only method of conflict detection in v7.2.0 and earlier versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The old version of conflict detection is enabled when `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` is not an empty string. In v7.2.0 and earlier versions, TiDB Lightning only supports this conflict detection method.
```

## Conflict detection

Conflicting data refers to two or more records with the same PK/UK column data. When the data source contains conflicting data and conflict detection feature is not turned on, the actual number of rows in the table is different from the total number of rows returned by the query using unique index.

There are two methods for conflict detection:

- The new version of conflict detection, controlled by `conflict` configuration
- The old version of conflict detection, controlled by `tikv-importer.duplicate-resolution` configuration

> 
>  Currently the two modes cannot be used at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
